How to make a user into a sudo


1. Open a Terminal: Open a terminal on your Unix/Linux system.

2. Log in as a Superuser: You will need superuser privileges to modify the sudoers file.
   You can either log in as the root user or use an account with sudo privileges. 
   If you are not already logged in as a user with sudo privileges, you can switch to the root user by running:

su -

   You'll need to enter the root user's password.

3. Edit the sudoers file: 
   You can edit the sudoers file using a text editor. 
   It is recommended to use the visudo command to edit the sudoers file, 
   as it performs syntax checking to avoid errors that can lock you out of sudo access. 
   Run:

visudo

   This will open the sudoers file in the default text editor (usually nano or vi).

4. Add User to sudoers: In the sudoers file, locate the line that looks like this:

root    ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

   Below that line, you can add a line to allow a specific user to use sudo. The syntax is as follows:

username    ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

   Replace username with the actual username of the user you want to grant sudo privileges to. 
   For example, if you want to give sudo privileges to a user named "john," the line should look like:

john    ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL

   Save and Exit: Save the file and exit the text editor. 
   In nano, you can do this by pressing Ctrl + O, then Enter, and then Ctrl + X to exit. 
   In vi, you can press Esc, then type :wq, and press Enter.

   Test the Configuration: 
   Before you exit the terminal, you can test if the user can use sudo by running a simple command with sudo privileges:

sudo ls

   You'll be prompted to enter the user's password. If the command runs without errors, then the user has sudo privileges.

   Exit Superuser Mode: If you switched to the root user in step 2, you can exit superuser mode and return to your regular user account:

exit

   That's it! The specified user should now have sudo privileges on your Unix/Linux system. 
   Make sure to grant sudo access carefully, 
   as it allows the user to execute commands with administrative privileges, 
   which can impact system security.